&ldquo;Sylph&rdquo; &mdash; distributed social-semantic informatics for a higher-order web
===============================
<small>_<span style="color:#f00">This document is a work in progress!</span> It's nearly complete though._</small>

**Abstract** 

I'm writing and publishing this <small>(rather informal)</small> public proposal on my own research work because [four NYU undergrads want to build a "distributed social network"](http://www.nytimes.com/2010/05/12/nyregion/12about.html?partner=rss&emc=rss). While I like their "just do it" approach, I believe that there's a bigger, more important underlying problem to solve. It's something I've spent nearly four years characterizing, touching on everything from a distributed read-write web for everyone, info-driven applications that operate on user-owned data stores, and finally bootstraping everyone into the Semantic Web. [I have a lot at stake in this](./why-i-care) and I don't want to lose momentum for my research. 

_I need your help to do this._ I'm starting a MIT/BSD-licensed Python/Django/Celery project on github this summer and I would like any willing and able hackers to help me build an advanced distributed informatics platform such as I'm about to describe. If you'd prefer to work in Ruby, PHP, whatever&mdash;sure. Let's work in parallel on the same problem so we can create a rock-solid API with many implementations and libraries available. I would like to provide direction for the project, but I'm not going to make all of the calls. This is a platform I want to build for all of us.

My architecture, scope, and intent is rather a bit different from the NYU gang of 
four, and this requires some explanation.

An information layer
--------------------

The web today isn't very complex. Yes, there's search, APIs, feeds, frameworks, robots, walled gardens, video, and even newfangled presentational elements. I won't explain any of those or comment on whether they are good or bad, but clearly this is a very one-layered (or n-layered, for small values of n) approach. When you think about advanced complexities you may think of OS kernels, the genome, and the brain: here are layers upon layers of automation, connection, and indirection all carefully orchestrating something grander, more emergent. Wouldn't it be great if our web could function cohesively, as a uniform system?

**Information itself needs an API and platform to go with it.** When we consume data, anywhere and in any form, we need to be able to save it, share it, annotate it, comment on it&mdash;all in a distributed manner. Social bookmarking, news, and photo sites are great, but limited due to their inherent centralization. We have to rely on the creators of these services to give us what we want. We do not have machinery in place to capture our data for advanced uses; it's still put into these data silos and linked together with hackish, disjoint APIs. At present we lack a universal _information methodology_. 

_Think about what Diaspora is trying to do for Facebook, **but imagine that applied to all websites and information**._ That is the crux of my research: a truly distributed global informatics system encompassing the creation, exchange, and consumption of data without need of websites&mdash;a world without walls.

> _Every person on the web has an information store which allows them to collect interesting news, facts, and communications&mdash;all of what is normally done on the web is either augmented or replaced outright. People's stores act as nodes that can communcate with other nodes and with machines to accomplish tasks that singular websites could not._ 

Such a platform can give us unimaginable potential: the capability to build a personalized dynamic data community that adapts to who we are. This web is an information gateway that dynamically meets our needs&mdash;it's a web that can automatically incorporate the people and things important to our daily life and personal growth. <small>(Data mining lets users gain perspective from their data: we can cluster users into interest groups to filter information by popularity. Communities pick what gets brought to attention, but ultimately users control the in-and-out flow of information.)</small> 

With it we will have the ability to publish and consume anywhere, anyhow and have our voice heard. It's going to grant us the highest signal-to-noise ratio ever. Developers will no longer write code for proprietary websites, but rather for _information use cases_. [More examples of the novel possibilities](./use-case-scenarios).

At present I call my platform **_&lsquo;sylph&rsquo;_**. This is the working title I have used throughout my research (I didn't want to make up an acronym or initialism). I'm open to new suggestions if you think the name is a bad one.

Sylph Architecture: just the basics
-----------------------------------
You'll be able to read a more in-depth writeup on the architecture soon. I'll post it as soon as I have the time for a writeup <small>(I'm trying to rapid-prototype and recruit a team to work with me right now)</small>. But for now, consider these principles:

* **Data are uniquely-keyed _resources_**. I took this idea from RDF/Semantic Web research and ran with it. If we assign a blog post, photo, comment, profile,&mdash;what have you&mdash;, a unique URI, we can identify these elements and talk about them throughout the system regardless of where, when, and how they are created.

* **Multiple types of nodes serve as _machine endpoints for communication_.** There are user-oriented nodes and machine-oriented nodes. User nodes serve people and will aggregate, store, publish, and process information on the owner's behalf. Machine nodes serve as caching servers, content aggregation and data mining nodes, directory services, anonymization proxies, robots, etc... _more on that later_.

* **Identity is to be fully supported, but an Anonymity option is _required_**. A lack of anonymity on the internet is a bad idea and harms our freedom and free speech. This platform will have to support both identity and anonymity in the production and consumption of data. 

My goals for this platform are too big to accomplish over the summer. That said, even the basics give us new functionality: a distributed, encrypted read-write web. This groundwork will then serve as a scaffold for greater things: a web of pure relevant information our machines will mine for us, a web without distraction as spammers and trolls are quickly identified and blacklisted by the community, and finally a stepping stone on the path to the full-blown Semantics as ontologies can be mapped to the data we create. This will be a platform that cannot be controlled by corporations, that cannot shove advertising down our throat, that anyone can contribute discrete new pieces to.

This isn't Diaspora or any similar project
------------------------------------------
As I've stated, I don't want to solve distributed social networking as it's currently defined. Actually, I don't want to build _anything_ for people who want to spend hours poking each other or playing "Farmville". I want us as a society to cure cancer, reverse aging, and develop alternative sources for energy. To that end I see value in developing a tool that empowers scientists, engineers, and hackers to better collaborate. Those still on Facebook don't care about privacy issues&mdash;I say just let them be. If this technology catches on, I'm sure they'll find a use for it. 

There is a real need for a platform that can enable better, faster learning. Something that natively supports distributed sharing, cataloging, commenting, annotation, and the curation of data and fostering of learning/research communities. _This does involve social networking to a point_, but that isn't the primary focus. Find and message your peers, but don't poke them or turn them into zombies. Don't clutter my info feed with pointless drivel. 

Remember, even today the web is all about the _production and consumption of information_. We're going to extend the current platform to better accomplish this, and this time around it will finally enable us to be fully in charge of our data. Tim Berners-Lee has always been aware of this fact and that's why he worked so long on the Semantic Web. It hasn't quite worked out yet because the momentum has been on the side of centralization and vertical platforms. Maybe our web will eventually evolve to be Semantic with a capital 'S'. I don't know, but I'm hopeful.

This is 2010. In December our web will turn twenty years old. Let's take the summer to work together and build the APIs and storage endpoints necessary to take the a few more evolutionary steps into the future.
 
If you have time and aren't already working on anything, please, please email me: **echelon at gmail dot com**. My name is Brandon, and I look forward to meeting you and working together to solve this. If you want to help, [here's more on how you can contact me and get involved](./please-join).

_If any of this document seems particularly unclear, or warrants additional explanation, please let me know!_

---

Pages, all previously linked:

* [**Please join our project!**](./please-join)
* [Why I want to do this](./why-i-care) 
* [Use case scenarios / examples](./use-case-scenarios) (WORK IN PROGRESS)
* <strike>Sylph Process and Architecture basics</strike> (TODO)
* <strike>Potential future for Sylph</strike> (TODO)
* [Github repository for sylph code](http://github.com/echelon/sylph)

Note that I don't have much time to work on all of these as I'm trying to code the prototype. 

